---
layout: post
title:  "Python: easy env. in linux too ..."
date:   2021-08-18 +0530
categories: jekyll update
tags:
  - python_environment
---

By setting up the python2/python3: `pip package manager`.

I'd install the virtualenv-wrapper package, then create virtual environment in python3

It was working on Windows only, but now Linux too, just adding some bash script in the `.bashrc` file in the Linux system.
For quick setup - install python and pip3, if I haven't installed or checking at least by which command in Linux (Arch, Debian, Fedora or Ubuntu ) for my PC.

{% highlight bash %}
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3-pip
sudo apt install python3-virtualenvwrapper
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight bash %}
sudo apt update 
sudo nano ~/.bashrc
{% endhighlight %}

By adding these scripts by scrolling below at the end of the ".bashrc" file.

`export VIRTUALENVWRAPPER_PYTHON='/usr/bin/python3.x'`
`export WORK_ON='/home/linux_name/python_environment'(.virtualenv folder)`
`source /usr/share/virtualenvwrapper/virtualenvwrapper.sh`

where,
	 python3.x = python3.8, python3.9 or python2.10, etc.
	 python_environment = any folder name in the home directory
	 linux_name = computer name for Linux system, like in my case "hackout" is a name of Linux.

{% highlight bash %}
sudo apt update; sudo apt upgrade
{% endhighlight %}

if you want to know, then see this demo video.


<div><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/e9g7j4PtWTU?si=NhEEtoAYHX0vQA32" title="demo" width="560" height="300"  frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer;autoplay;clipboard-write;encrypted-media;gyroscope;picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

Finds some helpful commands.

`lsvirtualenv`
List all of the environments stored in WORKON_HOME.

`mkvirtualenv`
create the environment.

`rmvirtualenv <name>`
Remove the environment.

`workon <name>`
If is specified, activate the environment named (change the working virtualenv to ). If a project directory has been defined, we will change it. If no argument is specified, list the available environments. One can pass additional option -c after virtualenv name to cd to virtualenv directory if no project dir is set.

`deactivate`
Deactivate the working virtualenv and switch back to the default system Python.

`add2virtualenv <full or relative path>`

Now, I can do **machine learning** and **deep learning** projects, and most important make a remarkable website with Django or flask in a python virtual environment customizely.

Okay, here is a short note, about how I got this lazy idea and where I find it, then read the [pypi.org][pypi] sub-projects.

Peace GUYS

***Happy Hacking !!***

[pypi]: https://pypi.org/project/virtualenvwrapper/
